# StatsVision

#### Description: Data is incredibly important in the world today. The biggest data aggregators, like Google and Apple, are also the biggest companies in the world. For the common man, seeing pure data in its raw form can be hard to grasp. What's the solution? A data visualizer, even someone who's illiterate, can understand that a bigger bar graph means more in value. The simplicity that you can bring when visualising data can help the common public become more informed about the world, make more informed decisions and collectively help humanity as a whole <p>  </p> <p>  </p>  To take on this project, I broke it down to smaller bits. First, I needed to get an input to prompt for countries, was at a crossroads if I should use a csv file to verify that the countries inputted actually exist or hardcode it inside the code. I went with hardcoding because I wasn't sure how submit50 would react to a csv file. I also chose to limit indicators to pre-determined ones <p>  </p> <p>  </p> Now's the hard part. Which data API should I use? This took me the most time. It's an endless hole. First I looked into a site called "trading economics". It had a good python api and a free developer account, but after experimenting, it turned out the free tier is very limited, so I had to ditch it. I looked into the World Bank. I was discouraged with the html api but it had a third party section and third parties did make a python fork. I researched a few of them, finally settled on the wbdata library <p>  </p> <p>  </p> Now another difficult part, actually choosing the indicators, is harder than you'd think, turns out even the world bank has shockingly outdated data for basic stuff like poverty and unemployment, I was shocked, had to cherrypick indicators which had recent data points, had to research quite a bit into it but finally found my favourite indicator. For finishing touches, I limited the number of countries that can be displayed to 10 because a graph with 10+ countries won't look palatable. I made a few changes, wrote a test_ file to test functions, and that was my final project. :)    
